README.md, before:

# Google Translate API 
The sample code can be found:
- [Raw php sample API](https://cloud.google.com/translate/docs/samples)
- [Github repository](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/php-docs-samples/tree/8d25b48bfa2dbcd217e56ca7734b5d37ec29fb88/translate) 


## Description
The purpose this package is to detect languages of a given string. If you need other functionality you may call that function by the google client.

These samples show how to use the [Google Cloud Translate API][translate-api]
from PHP.

[translate-api]: https://cloud.google.com/translate/docs/quickstart-client-libraries

### Installation
Add following code to the application's `composer.json` file

    "repositories": [
          ....
        {
            "type": "vcs",
            "url": "https://github.com/virtunus/translator.git"
        }
    ],
Now run the follwing command to add this package to your project.
```
    comoser require virtunus/translator
```
### Configurations
1.  **Enable APIs** - [Enable the Translate API](https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=translate)
    and create a new project or select an existing project.
2.  **Download The Credentials** - Configure your project using [Application Default Credentials][adc].
    Click "Go to credentials" after enabling the APIs. Click "Create Credentials"
    and select "Service Account Credentials" and download the credentials file. Then set the path to
    this file to the environment variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` using one of the following two ways:

- Set environment variable to `.env` file in your project
```
    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/credentials.json
```
- Set glabal environment variable in OS
```
    $ export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/credentials.json
```

### Uses

- Detect languages
```
    $client = new \Virtunus\Translator\TranslateClient();
    $langs = $client->detectLanguages('May Allah bless you', 'project-id');
```
> If you do not want to pass the `project-id` again and again then you should set the `GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID` environment varable in `.env` file of your project.

- Get original google client

```
    $virtunusClient = new \Virtunus\Translator\TranslateClient();
    $googleClent = $client->getClient();
````

Now can call any function of the [google API](https://cloud.google.com/translate/docs/samples) client with `$googleClient`.

### Running Tests

Set the value of environment variables `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` and `GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID` in `phpunit.xml` file of the package. Then run the test command

```
    composer test
```

Commit message:

add option to disable in development mode"

README.md, after:

# Google Translate API 
The sample code can be found:
- [Raw php sample API](https://cloud.google.com/translate/docs/samples)
- [Github repository](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/php-docs-samples/tree/8d25b48bfa2dbcd217e56ca7734b5d37ec29fb88/translate)


## Description
The purpose this package is to detect languages of a given string. If you need other functionality you may call that function by the google client.

These samples show how to use the [Google Cloud Translate API][translate-api]
from PHP.

[translate-api]: https://cloud.google.com/translate/docs/quickstart-client-libraries

### Installation
Add following code to the application's `composer.json` file

    "repositories": [
          ....
        {
            "type": "vcs",
            "url": "https://github.com/virtunus/translator.git"
        }
    ],
Now run the follwing command to add this package to your project.
```
    comoser require virtunus/translator
```
### Configurations
1.  **Enable APIs** - [Enable the Translate API](https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=translate)
    and create a new project or select an existing project.
2.  **Download The Credentials** - Configure your project using [Application Default Credentials][adc].
    Click "Go to credentials" after enabling the APIs. Click "Create Credentials"
    and select "Service Account Credentials" and download the credentials file. Then set the path to
    this file to the environment variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` using one of the following two ways:

- Set environment variable to `.env` file in your project
```
    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/credentials.json
```
- Set glabal environment variable in OS
```
    $ export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/credentials.json
```

### Uses

- Detect languages
```
    $client = new \Virtunus\Translator\TranslateClient();
    $langs = $client->detectLanguages('May Allah bless you', 'project-id');
```
> If you do not want to pass the `project-id` again and again then you should set the `GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID` environment varable in `.env` file of your project.

- Get original google client

```
    $virtunusClient = new \Virtunus\Translator\TranslateClient();
    $googleClent = $client->getClient();
````

Now can call any function of the [google API](https://cloud.google.com/translate/docs/samples) client with `$googleClient`.

### Running Tests

Set the value of environment variables `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` and `GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID` in `phpunit.xml` file of the package. Then run the test command

```
    composer test
```

### Development Mode

You should set the following environment variable to disable language detection.

    ENABLE_LANGUAGE_DETECTION=false
